---
author: "Tim Woodward"
title: ""
---

<p style="font-variant-caps: all-small-caps; text-align: center; letter-spacing: 1px;">Career Council</p>

The letter against the soldier’s breast was for brass eyeballs only. It was a top-secret order. A mission from a Major General, or the high orders of a Wing Commander. It was rumoured as co-signed by a Corporeal Colonel or a Spectral Brigadier Chaplain. It was perfumed with the lead dust of a percussion musket. Stamped with the left dig boot of a trench toilet. Blessed under the young sun rising.

The letter was cotton stitched into a leather pouch, wax sealed to guard against sloppy canteen swigs. It was to travel on the soldier-man. It was to sit across his heart-spot. If an enemy sharp-shooter found their mark, the precious letter would be butchered by the same deathly slug. A bullet through an apostrophe. A shrapnel interrupted paraph. Blood in the margins.

The soldier was mission-picked for his laudable levels of illiteracy. He was the Group Captain’s first choice because of two strong legs. That, and he was probably friends with someone in HR. That, and he once house-sat for the Rear-Admiral, watered his plants and fed the cat. The soldier was an energetic yes-man, the trench favoured everyman. He was a man of no letters, the ultimate war-wisened postman.

The secret chest borne order was to advise the frontline of new pathways. A fresh start and a new vocation. An about-face, or by a degree more obtuse. Whatever the angle, a new approach was necessary. The urgency of this message was unquestionable. The time had come to cut ties with sunk costs. No further losses in honour of previous ones. Trusted company tacticians would soon agree on a company rebrand, and then a logo, and still something to be done with those uniforms.

The secret message, of direct orders, in a sealed letter, read as follows.

Prepare, prepare, prepare.  
Each of you, sole traders with sore soles.  
Handy types with calloused minds.  
Scholastic heroes all absent at your graduation ceremonies.  
The time’s ripe for you to find new pathways.  
We’ve reached a moment to reconsider targets.  
Our latest intelligence suggests, there’s not one thing left worth aiming at.  
Not a tin can or rabbit on the horizon for you.  
We suspect, or we know, there’s nothing much to shoot for.

Prepare, prepare, prepare.  
You’re out on your ass.  
But don’t fear, we’ve made some preparations on your behalf.  
Some five untested suggestions are listed below.  
Hopefully all useful, but not be taken without imagination.  
At fear of flooding burgeoning markets, in each case we recommend some alteration. Honestly, we’re slightly out of our depth too.  
We just recognised the rising waters a little earlier than you.  
Within our duty of care, with all executive responsibilities now met, we suggest upskilling and diversifying, and maybe LinkedIn for what’s left.

<div style="font-family: sans-serif, sans-serif; font-size: 1.25rem; line-height: 1.5">

1. Ceramic Mug Introductions
2. Reupholster Industry Observations
3. Library Garden Visitations
4. Fishing Boat Apologies
5. Kitchen Compost Reminders

</div>
