---
author: "Laura Gardner"
title: ""
---

<p style="font-variant-caps: all-small-caps; text-align: center; letter-spacing: 1px;">Impossible Clothing</p>

Before the salon shows of the late-eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, fashion circulated in dolls, carefully dressed in the latest styles. These _pandores_, or pandora miniatures, exported European fashion to overseas markets as a traded commodity. The miniaturised clothing styled on the dolls sold not the clothes, i.e. the wholesale samples, but their concept, the unique designs of the latest modes. Impossible to wear, the dolls were instructional devices for the latest fashions. International manufacturers derived from them how the looks were to be produced, worn, and accessorised.

This impossibility was reversed in the late 20th C, the so-called post-fashion period, by Belgian designer Martin Margiela. In _A Doll’s Wardrobe_, his A ⁄ W 1994 collection, Margiela adapted the scale of the _pandores_ back into outfits of human size. Pieces in the collection were expertly manufactured to enlarge the subtle details of scale in doll’s clothing. As denoted on the label, ‘details and disproportions are reproduced in the enlargement’. A tiny knitted wool cardigan, for instance, was formed by exaggerated stiches of bulky yarn, closing with enlarged press studs down the chest.

Shrinking back down, artist Charles LeDray has painstakingly reconstructed ordinary scenes of retail fashion at a miniaturised scale. For his 2010 exhibition _Men’s Suits_, he recreated a thrift shop interior, with tangles on tiny plastic clothes hangers and second-hand clothes, all at knee-height. In miniaturising the archetypes of the wardrobe and the spaces they inhabit, LeDray’s dioramas produce a scenography that offer a bird’s eye view of dress semiotics. Paradoxically, at this unwearable scale, clothes become less symbolic, materialising childlike sympathies in LeDray’s hand-stitching.

Tiny clothing, in its impossibility for wear, echoes our bodies and the curious modes in which we attire them. At the scale and proportion of the miniature, we observe the phenomenon of dress within a cultural system of fashion.
